Application and initialization
==================================
2017-01-29



Since an application can have multiple entry points, we want the initialization to be an easy process.
Zuk uses a simple init file to initialize the application, and a one liner to start the application.


Here is what a complete zuk application launching looks like:


```php
<?php
// app/www/index.php


use Core\Application\WebApplication;
use Core\Request\HttpRequest;

require_once __DIR__ . "/../init.php";


WebApplication::create()->start(HttpRequest::createFromEnv());
```

The code above is the content of the **index** file (**app/www/index.php**), which is the main entry point of 
a web application.

In a zuk web application, we use the trick of redirecting every virtual request (a request which target actually doesn't exist)
to the index file. 
To learn more about this trick implementation, please read the <-Redirecting all traffic to the index-> page.




Application configuration
=============================
2017-01-29


An application often has a configuration.
We've already seen that calling the **init** file is the only step necessary to initialize the application.

Let's now dive into the details of the implementation.

Amongst other things, the **init** file actually uses two types of configuration:

- configuration constants
- configuration variables



Configuration constants
-------------------------

Configuration constants are defined using regular php constants.

For instance, the code below shows some configuration constants found in the init file:
 
```php
define('DEV_MODE', ('127.0.0.1' === $_SERVER['REMOTE_ADDR']));
define('APP_ROOT', __DIR__);
``` 

Configuration constants are immutable: they are defined once for all the rest of the process.



Configuration variables
--------------------------

Configuration variables are handled by the Application object itself.
They are created inside the init file:

```php
$conf = [];
require_once APP_ROOT . '/config/app-config.php';
Application::setConfig($conf);
```

As you can guess, the file containing the variables holds them in an array.
That's because the intent is to update those variables either manually, or using a web gui.
So, isolating the variables in a file makes it easier to perform the updates.


Then, to access a configuration variable from anywhere in the application, 
we call the **get** method, like so:

```php
$maintenanceActive = Application::get('MAINTENANCE_MODE');
```

In theory, configuration variables can change over time if necessary.
In practice though, there is no **set** method for the moment because I didn't need it yet.


The configuration variables used depends on the type of application.

If you are interested in, read the <-application configuration variables-> page which lists
the configuration variables used by default in zuk applications.
 











