Application start
==================================
2017-01-29


Now that the application is initialized, we can launch it using the **start** method.

Note: the intent was to implement the start method as an interface, but due to the php object model limitations,
I've implemented it as a convention. This shouldn't bother you: think of it as an interface.




```php
WebApplication::create()->start(HttpRequest::createFromEnv());
```



The **start** method basically implements the "dispatcher to controller" mechanism explained in the
<-zuk overview introduction->.


Let's see how the WebApplication object has been implemented.

It turns out that the application dispatcher is actually implemented as an array of routers.


What's a router?
=====================
A router is an object which takes the **request** as input, and returns the appropriate **Controller**
if it can, or false otherwise.

There are plenty of things to say implementation wise.


First, using an array of routers (rather than just one router) gives us flexibility, and the ability
to order the routers. 

For instance, you can have a maintenance router, then a firewall router, then a dynamic router, then a static router.
The order is important, because as soon as a router returns a Controller, the other routers are skipped.

The maintenance router switches the whole website down, and therefore it makes sense to check whether or not the
website should be in maintenance BEFORE the other routers do their job.


If none of the routers can find a Controller, then a ControllerNotFoundException is thrown.


Then let's talk about the controller returned by the router.


What's a Controller?
=========================

So the router's job is to return a Controller.

But what's a Controller?

We already said that a Controller is responsible for handling a request.

In terms of implementation though, when the router returns a controller, the controller
has the form of a string.

It can be either:

- the class path of a Controller object. Example: Module\MyModule\MyModuleControllerOne
- the file name of a php file to include. Example: home.php


When a class path is returned, then the designated object must be an instance of the controller interface.
In the case of a web application, the controller interface is WebControllerInterface (app/class-core/Controller/WebControllerInterface.php).

A controller interface basically has one method: **handleRequest**, that's it.


When a filename is returned, it's the name of a file located under the **app/pages** directory.

The designated file contains the body of the default 200 http response returned by the webserver.
In other words, for most pages, if you don't have the explicit need for a Controller object,
you can use this technique.


Including the file directly like that is actually faster than implementing a Controller object.
Depending on your goals and coding preferences, you might want to use one system or the other.



Catching exceptions
========================

The **start** method is the entry point of the application.
 
It provides a try/catch block that encompasses the whole application process.
 
When this try/catch block actually catches an exception, it provides you with an opportunity
to do something about it.

You don't want to mess that opportunity, because if you throw an exception again during this opportunity,
then the user will either get the exception in her face, or a blank screen.

That's why we recommend to use simple logic objects in that case.



Using module services
==========================

If you pay close attention to the **WebApplication::start** method, you will see that it uses a module
called WebApplicationHooksService.

We're about to touch the topic of module services, so I will let your curiosity click
on the <-module services page->.






























  




