Hasss
=========================
2017-01-29



Hasss stands for hardcoded service subscription system.


It helps connecting **modules services** with each others.


A **module service** is basically a task opened to other modules.


If your module provides a service, other modules can hook into that service and help you with it.


A module can act both as a provider or a subscriber, or both depending whether it provides services, subscribes to 
other modules services, or both.

 
 
 
Why Hasss?
======================
 

 
The basic idea is this: when you install a module, it automatically connects itself with the existing system.

This means your module subscribes to the other modules services, and the other modules
automatically connect themselves to your module services: connections are made both ways.

It saves a lot of time.



Hass implementation example
=====================

My goal here is that you understand how hasss works in every day's life.

Be warned, this is a long story, so hang on.


The need for hasss
------------------------

Once upon a time, in the deep forest of Binington, there was a boy named Harry.
Harry knew how to create shoes, and he loved it. He made 5 pair of shoes per day, and everyday he started again 
and again.
 
When Harry was a young adult, he had so many shoes that he decided to sold them.

He decided to create a zuk application to sell his shoes online.

After reading zuk documentation, he started by creating this Controller:


```php
<?php


namespace Module\HarryFactory;

use Core\Controller\WebControllerInterface;
use Core\Request\HttpRequestInterface;

class HarryFactoryController implements WebControllerInterface {


    public function handleRequest(HttpRequestInterface $request)
    {
        echo "Hi, I'm Harry, welcome to my site. I'm selling awesome shoes!";
    }


}
```


On his way back home he met Tony.

Tony said: "Harry, I can help you selling shoes, will you be my partner?"
Harry said: "Yes sure, let's be partner".


He was thinking about how to display Tony as a partner in the website, but then he met
Lucy, and Lucy said: "Harry, I can help you selling shoes, will you be my partner?"
Harry said: "Yes sure, let's be partner".


Harry then thought to himself: "man, I have to find a way to include all my partners on the website".
 
So he updated the code, and split into two. First he updated his Controller, like so:

```php
<?php


namespace Module\HarryFactory;

use Core\Controller\WebControllerInterface;
use Core\Request\HttpRequestInterface;

class HarryFactoryController implements WebControllerInterface
{


    public function handleRequest(HttpRequestInterface $request)
    {
        echo "Hi, I'm Harry, welcome to my site. I'm selling awesome shoes!";
        $partners = [];
        HarryFactoryService::getPartners($partners);
        if (count($partners) > 0) {
            echo "<br>";
            echo "Thanks to my partners: " . implode(', ', $partners);
        }
    }


}
```

And then he created a service, like so:

```php
<?php


namespace Module\HarryFactory;

class HarryFactoryService
{

    public static function getPartners(array &$partners)
    {

    }
}
```

After having updated his website, Harry asked Tony and Lucy to create modules.

After reading zuk documentation, Tony did this:

```php
<?php

namespace Module\TonyFactory;


class TonyFactoryModule
{

    public static function getPartners(array &$partners)
    {
        $partners[] = "tony";
    }

}
```

And Lucy did this:

```php
<?php

namespace Module\LucyFactory;


class LucyFactoryModule
{

    public static function getPartners(array &$partners)
    {
        $partners[] = "lucy";
    }

}
```


Finally, Harry updated his service code like so:


```php
<?php


namespace Module\HarryFactory;

class HarryFactoryService
{

    public static function getPartners(array &$partners)
    {
        \Module\TonyFactory\TonyFactoryModule::getPartners($partners);
        \Module\LucyFactory\LucyFactoryModule::getPartners($partners);
    }
}
```

and he published a paper explaining that people who wants to become a partner have to 
create a module like TonyFactoryModule.


In the end, the website was awesome, and Harry was a happy man.

The website looked exactly how he wanted:

```txt
Hi, I'm Harry, welcome to my site. I'm selling awesome shoes!
Thanks to my partners: tony, lucy
```


Perhaps Harry wasn't the best designer ever, but he understood the power of **modules services**
and made a lot of sells.


The end.




To fully understand this example, I suggest you actually implement it in your spare time.
By doing so, you will hopefully enjoy the benefit of having hardcoded wiring.


The good news is that hasss can do the hardcoded work for you automatically, as long as you follow the 
rules.


Note: if you want a more concrete example, have a look at the source code of the **start** method of the 
WebApplication object (app/class-core/Application/WebApplication.php), for instance.




Hasss rules
=======================
todo: needs revision


There are a few rules to implement in order to create a module service.
I will explain why later, for now I explain how.


### Rule one: the provider class ends with the "Service" suffix

If you want to provide a **module service**, you have to create a class at the root of your module directory
which ends with the **Service** suffix.

For instance if your module's name is Hamburger, then you need to create a HamburgerService class.
 
 
### Rule two: the provider class's services must only be public static methods

So, whenever you create a public static method inside a provider class, it is by default a module service.


### Rule three: the subscriber class ends with the "Module" suffix

If you want to subscribe to a module service, you have to create a class at the root of your module directory
which ends with the **Module** suffix.


For instance if your module's name is Hamburger, then you need to create a HamburgerModule class.


### Rule four: the subscriber method has the same signature as the provider method it subscribes to

So for instance if your module's name is Cheese, and you want to subscribe to a Hamburger::addPotatoe service, 
then you have to create a CheeseModule::addPotatoe method which has the same signature 
as the Hamburger::addPotatoe method. 



That's all for the rules.

