Themes
====================
2017-01-30 --> 2017-01-30




A theme is a cloth for a web application.
You can change the cloth as you wish, but the content stays the same.



Ok, but how do we implement it?

Here are my thoughts about the subject; hopefully you can understand them.



The tremendous job of the Controller
=====================================
So, Controller has to display a page.
Page is made of elements, like menu top, footer, sidebar, body, login bar, etc..., and
some glue html to bind elements together.

If you think about it, elements like menu top are in a quite stable state: they don't change from page to page.
For instance, the footer is pretty much the same no matter what page you are visiting.

The menu top is also stable, and that's a good thing because it ensures consistency across the pages of your web app.

Take the login bar now; it is quite stable, but it can have different states:

- the state when you are logged in
- the state when you are not logged in

Plus, if your website does multilang, then it might display the flag corresponding to the user country, maybe also 
the currency used, those sorts of things.

So, the login bar element, or top bar element should I say depends on the application state (user logged in, which country
was selected, ...).

Now take the sidebar and imagine it contains ads, depending on who the user is, and also depending on which page 
the user is visiting.

So the sidebar component depends on the application state (user info) AND the uri, and maybe other variables (for instance
if it's the winter or the summer). Also, if we use a cms, we can imagine that an administrator configures the sidebar
to her taste, and so this element can also depend on an admin config.

Now take the body element (assuming a one column layout to make things simple): it's content completely depends on the uri,
and maybe also on the application state (when the user is logged in she can access more features...), maybe an admin config too.

And if you use a multi-column layout, then you might have multiple bodies on a given page.


SO, as you can see, the Controller has a tremendous job to do!


So, my first question is this: what's better:

- all elements have their own life and change state depending on the application state, the uri, the admin config, ...
- or is it better to have the Controller setting states for every element on the page

?

Great question isn't it?

So where do we start with? 

(divide and conquer)


LAWS
===========
Well, you maybe know a cms called wordpress.
If we take the wordpress approach and try to apply it here, what do we have?

From what I understood, in wordpress every page component (footer, top bar, top menu, body, ...) is called a widget.

Widget can be configured by an administrator via a back office.

Widgets can be grouped together in widget groups (called sidebar in wordpress).

For instance, the footer might actually be a group containing a "social icons" widget, an "our partners" widget, 
and so on...


The layout is the file that displays the widgets together on an html page.
It's basically an html file with placeholders for widgets/widget groups.


Let's take a break here and call this system LAWS (layout and widgets system).

Ok.

Do you see how the Controller's influence starts to slowly spread out into the widgets via the layout?

Moreover, if we use a back office, the Controller delegates part of its job to the website administrator. Awesome.

However, it's important to remember that the Controller is responsible for 
displaying the page (website administrators are just helping), therefore the Controller should be able to override
any widget settings.

So, the Controller need a way to target any widget, and to change the layout.

That's when design is important. At that point, we need a design that represents the system we've just described.

My friends, I'm giving you the Layout object (clap clap).


fontSize=verySmall: Or at least I will because it's not written yet.




Templates
=============

At this point, I've got a good news and a bad news.

The good news is that we are already half way there.

The bad news is that we are only half way there.

Remember that the ultimate goal of theming is to be able to switch a web app's design rapidly.

But we didn't talk about how widgets display their content yet.

That's what we need to do now.

What about giving the widgets a **render** method.
That render method would call a template file, and the widget would provide the necessary variables.

Using a template file allows us to reach our theming ultimate goal: copying a directory of templates in order
to override a theme.

Sounds good to me.


So now, hopefully you have the overview of the design related to theming in a zuk application.




So to answer my first question (what's better between all elements have their own life 
or the Controller controlling everything), the answer is, as often, a little bit of both.









About layout
=================

The layout is the glue around widgets/widget groups.
It can adapt to the widgets if necessary.

For instance, if there is a login bar widget, the layout can adapt depending on whether or not the user is logged in.

