What is zuk?
====================
2017-01-28


Zuk is a php framework to help creating an application.



Let's have a quick overview of how things are organized, and why.






It's about handling requests
===============================================

An **application** is a system which handles **requests**.

There are basically two types of applications:

- web application
- command line application


There could more types of application, it doesn't really matter.


The request is brought by the user (of the application) and depends on the application type.

Typically, in a **web application**, a **request** is an **http request**,
whereas in a **command line application**; a request is the command line input.


In zuk, a request is handled by a **Controller**.

A Controller is the object responsible for handling a request.


The benefit of using Controllers is that you can then use inheritance to modify the behaviour
of a whole group of somehow related Controllers.



So for instance if you want to create a Calculator application, you need to create a Controller that will handle
the numbers passed by the user (via the request), and that Controller will be responsible for displaying the computed
result to the user's screen.

In a web application, a Controller's role is typically to display an html page or to send an http response.



How do you know which Controller to use?
------------------------------------------

If you have multiple Controllers, and a request is coming into your app, then how do you know which Controller is supposed
to handle the request?

First, in a zuk application, a request can be handled by one and only one Controller. This makes it easier to debug the app.

Then, to pass the request to the right Controller, we use an ApplicationDispatcher.

The ApplicationDispatcher is the object responsible for dispatching the incoming request to the right Controller.


The picture below show an overview of the zuk application we've just described.


<!-zuk-overview.png->




But how does the ApplicationDispatcher know which Controller to dispatch to?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since only the Controller knows how to handle a request, it's the Controller author who must decide when
the Controller should be called.

In other words the Controller is not only responsible for handling a request, but also responsible for telling
the ApplicationDispatcher WHEN to pass the request to it.

Now is maybe too soon to discuss implementation details, for now it's enough to understand the job of the
Controller in a zuk app.




How are Controller brought to the application?
------------------------------------------

So when you want to create a zuk application, you have to create some Controllers,
but imagine for a second that your friend Paul created a bunch of Controllers that can handle an e-commerce website.

Wouldn't it be great if you could re-use Paul's work in your app?
That's actually possible thanks to the concept of module.

A module is a unit that you can plug in and out your application to enhance its behaviour.
A module can ship with multiple objects, including Controllers.

If your friend Paul wants to share his work with other people, he creates a module and uploads it on the web.
Other people can then download the module and install it in their own application, hence benefiting Paul's work.

We will dive into module's structure later, but for now the goal is simply to understand why modules are used
in a zuk application.

Modules are used so that the work of the developers around the world can be shared.

Since Controllers are brought via modules, your understanding of a zuk application should by now look like the picture
below.

<!-zuk-overview-with-modules.png->


So for instance you can imagine a web application with an e-commerce module, a blog module, a contact module, ...

However, keep in mind that modules can ship all sort of things, not only Controllers, and that
a module can be as small or as big as needed.





Ok, so that was a quick overview of a zuk application.
If you like this sort of general explanations, I invite you to read the next page about Web applications.














