Web application
====================
2017-01-28 --> 2017-01-30




A web application's can do different things:

- display html pages
- display fragments of html pages (ajax)
- display content of json files
- send mails
- prepare pdf for downloads
- handle a payment transaction
- ...



How to display an html page?
=================================

As we've seen in the <-zuk application overview->, a zuk application accepts a request, and a controller
is responsible for handling it.

Basically, each html page is created by a Controller.

In fact, in a web application, most Controllers have the role of displaying an html page.


So let's think a bit about how to create an html page.

In a zuk application, we generally have two goals when creating an html page:

- the look'n'feel has to be consistent with the other html pages
- we should be able to switch from a theme (look'n'feel) to another in one click


You can have more or less goals for your own, but those two goals are what I'm personally striving for.
Why?
The consistency of the look'n'feel is just common sense: when you browse a website, you expect to see the top menu
and the footer on every page, otherwise it would be confusing.

The desire of using themes has a great repercussion on the design, so it's important to understand why themes
have been considered necessary to a zuk application.

Imagine that Paul makes an e-commerce module and he sends it to you.
At first you're glad that you can use this module, because creating an e-commerce on your own takes a lot of time.

But what if you don't like the design made by Paul?
You would have to go in every file of the module and updates whatever displays an html page or a part of it;
this can soon become a nightmare.


The idea of a theme is to separate WHAT should be displayed from HOW it should be displayed.
For instance in a blog post, you know that you have to display the post title, the post content and an image.
That's WHAT should be displayed: that's the data.

Now you could decide that the title should be uppercase, or with a red background, and the image on the right, or on the left, and so on...
that's HOW it should be displayed.

There are many ways to display the same data.

A file containing the information of HOW to display the data is called a template.

The goal of using a theme is that when you share your blog module with a friend, she can basically copy a directory
containing all the templates (the files containing the HOW information), modify them as she wishes and basically have the same blog module but with a brand new design.

Not everybody needs to create themable modules, but a standard zuk web application use this concept of theme for the flexibility it brings.

So when you create a themable module, other people can change the theme without changing your module's internal behaviour.



We will discuss the implementation details in an other document, but for now let's continue with the overview of a zuk application.
Another important point that we haven't discussed yet is the <-services->.











