Services
====================
2017-01-28 --> 2017-01-29





A service is a specialized object that helps the developer to get a job done.

Services can be used in any zuk application.

There are two types of services:

- application services
- module services



Application services
=========================

Application services are singleton classes.
They are therefore available at any moment after the application initialization and from anywhere.

We will talk about application initialization later.

There are a few application services:

- pdo: access a database via pdo
- mailer: send mails
- logger: log system
- privilege: handles user's permissions


Note: depending on your application, you might use more or less application services.





Module services
==================

Modules can also provide their own services.

For instance if you create an admin module, and you have a dynamic left menu;
then you might want other modules to be able to add items to your left menu.

In order to do so, your module can provide a service named addLeftMenuItem (for instance),
and other modules can subscribe to this service to add their own left menu item(s).





Application initialization
=============================

Application initialization is the action of preparing all the configuration necessary to make the application work
correctly.

A command line application generally only has one entry point; however a web application can have multiple entry points
(ajax requests for instance).

No matter which entry point is used, a zuk application has to be initialized before it can do its job.




That's all for the overview.
If you are developer, you might want to continue and read more the <-zuk implementation details->.









